buffer busy waits. It might be that many processes are inserting into the
same block and must wait for each other before they can insert. The solution could be
to use automatic segment space management or partitioning for the object in question.
See Also:
ò
"Wait Events Statistics" for differences among the views
V$SESSION_WAIT, V$SESSION_EVENT, and V$SYSTEM_EVENT
ò
Oracle Database Reference for information about the dynamic
performance views
System Statistics
System statistics are typically used in conjunction with wait event data to find further
evidence of the cause of a performance problem.
For example, if V$SYSTEM_EVENT indicates that the largest wait event (in terms of wait
time) is the event buffer busy waits, then look at the specific buffer wait statistics
available in the view V$WAITSTAT to see which block type has the highest wait count
and the highest wait time.
After the block type has been identified, also look at V$SESSION real-time while the
problem is occurring or V$ACTIVE_SESSION_HISTORY and
DBA_HIST_ACTIVE_SESS_HISTORY views after the problem has been experienced to
identify the contended-for objects using the object number indicated. The combination
of this data indicates the appropriate corrective action.
Statistics are available in many V$ views. The following are some of the V$ views that
contain system statistics.
V$ACTIVE_SESSION_HISTORY
This view displays active database session activity, sampled once every second.
V$SYSSTAT
This contains overall statistics for many different parts of Oracle Database, including
rollback, logical and physical I/O, and parse data. Data from V$SYSSTAT is used to
compute ratios, such as the buffer cache hit ratio.
V$FILESTAT
This contains detailed file I/O statistics for each file, including the number of I/Os for
each file and the average read time.
Chapter 10
Instance Tuning Steps
10-10
V$ROLLSTAT
This contains detailed rollback and undo segment statistics for each segment.
V$ENQUEUE_STAT
This contains detailed enqueue statistics for each enqueue, including the number of times an
enqueue was requested and the number of times an enqueue was waited for, and the wait
time.
V$LATCH
This contains detailed latch usage statistics for each latch, including the number of times
each latch was requested and the number of times the latch was waited for.
See Also:
Oracle Database Reference for information about dynamic performance views
Segment-Level Statistics
You can gather segment-level statistics to help you spot performance problems associated
with individual segments. Collecting and viewing segment-level statistics is a good way to
effectively identify hot tables or indexes in an instance.
After viewing wait events and system statistics to identify the performance problem, you can
use segment-level statistics to find specific tables or indexes that are causing the problem.
Consider, for example, that V$SYSTEM_EVENT indicates that buffer busy waits cause a fair
amount of wait time. You can select from V$SEGMENT_STATISTICS the top segments that
cause the buffer busy waits. Then you can focus your effort on eliminating the problem in
those segments.
You can query segment-level statistics through the following dynamic performance views:
ò
V$SEGSTAT_NAME: This view lists the segment statistics being collected and the
properties of each statistic (for instance, if it is a sampled statistic).
ò
V$SEGSTAT: This is a highly efficient, real-time monitoring view that shows the statistic
value, statistic name, and other basic information.
ò
V$SEGMENT_STATISTICS: This is a user-friendly view of statistic values. In addition to all
the columns of V$SEGSTAT, it has information about such things as the segment owner
and table space name. It makes the statistics easy to understand, but it is more costly.
See Also:
Oracle Database Reference for information about dynamic performance views
Chapter 10
Instance Tuning Steps
10-11
Implement and Measure Change
Often at the end of a tuning exercise, it is possible to identify two or three changes that
could potentially alleviate the problem. To identify which change provides the most
benefit, it is recommended that only one change be implemented at a time. The effect
of the change should be measured against the baseline data measurements found in
the problem definition phase.
Typically, most sites with dire performance problems implement several overlapping
changes at once, and thus cannot identify which changes provided any benefit.
Although this is not immediately an issue, this becomes a significant hindrance if
similar problems subsequently appear, because it is not possible to know which of the
changes provided the most benefit and which efforts to prioritize.
If it is not possible to implement changes separately, then try to measure the effects of
dissimilar changes. For example, measure the effect of making an initialization change
to optimize redo generation separately from the effect of creating a new index to
improve the performance of a modified query. It is impossible to measure the benefit of
performing an operating system upgrade if SQL is tuned, the operating system disk
layout is changed, and the initialization parameters are also changed at the same time.
Performance tuning is an iterative process. It is unlikely to find a 'silver bullet' that
solves an instance-wide performance problem. In most cases, excellent performance
requires iteration through the performance tuning phases, because solving one
bottleneck often uncovers another (sometimes worse) problem.
Knowing when to stop tuning is also important. The best measure of performance is
user perception, rather than how close the statistic is to an ideal value.
Interpreting Oracle Database Statistics
Gather statistics that cover the time when the instance had the performance problem.
If you previously captured baseline data for comparison, then you can compare the
current data to the data from the baseline that most represents the problem workload.
When comparing two reports, ensure that the two reports are from times where the
system was running comparable workloads.
Examine Load
Usually, wait events are the first data examined. However, if you have a baseline
report, then check to see if the load has changed. Regardless of whether you have a
baseline, it is useful to see whether the resource usage rates are high.
Load-related statistics to examine include redo size, session logical reads, db block
changes, physical reads, physical read total bytes, physical writes, physical
write total bytes, parse count (total), parse count (hard), and user calls. This
data is queried from V$SYSSTAT. It is best to normalize this data over seconds and over
transactions. It is also useful to examine the total I/O load in MB per second by using
the sum of physical read total bytes and physical write total bytes. The combined value
includes the I/O's used to buffer cache, redo logs, archive logs, by Recovery Manager
(RMAN) backup and recovery and any Oracle Database background process.
Chapter 10
Interpreting Oracle Database Statistics
10-12
In the AWR report, look at the Load Profile section. The data has been normalized over
transactions and over seconds.
Changing Load
The load profile statistics over seconds show the changes in throughput (that is, whether the
instance is performing more work each second). The statistics over transactions identify
changes in the application characteristics by comparing these to the corresponding statistics
from the baseline report.
High Rates of Activity
Examine the statistics normalized over seconds to identify whether the rates of activity are
very high. It is difficult to make blanket recommendations on high values, because the
thresholds are different on each site and are contingent on the application characteristics, the
number and speed of CPUs, the operating system, the I/O system, and the Oracle Database
release.
The following are some generalized examples (acceptable values v
