ch as event type and wait time).
ò
V$SYSTEM_EVENT
The V$SYSTEM_EVENT view provides a summary of all the event waits on the instance
since it started.
ò
V$EVENT_HISTOGRAM
The V$EVENT_HISTOGRAM view displays a histogram of the number of waits, the maximum
wait, and total wait time on an event basis.
ò
V$FILE_HISTOGRAM
The V$FILE_HISTOGRAM view displays a histogram of times waited during single block
reads for each file.
ò
V$SYSTEM_WAIT_CLASS
The V$SYSTEM_WAIT_CLASS view provides the instance wide time totals for the number of
waits and the time spent in each class of wait events.
ò
V$TEMP_HISTOGRAM
Chapter 10
Instance Tuning Steps
10-9
The V$TEMP_HISTOGRAM view displays a histogram of times waited during single
block reads for each temporary file.
Investigate wait events and related timing data when performing reactive performance
tuning. The events with the most time listed against them are often strong indications
of the performance bottleneck. For example, by looking at V$SYSTEM_EVENT, you might
notice lots of buffer busy waits. It might be that many processes are inserting into the
same block and must wait for each other before they can insert. The solution could be
to use automatic segment space management or partitioning for the object in question.
See Also:
ò
"Wait Events Statistics" for differences among the views
V$SESSION_WAIT, V$SESSION_EVENT, and V$SYSTEM_EVENT
ò
Oracle Database Reference for information about the dynamic
performance views
System Statistics
System statistics are typically used in conjunction with wait event data to find further
evidence of the cause of a performance problem.
For example, if V$SYSTEM_EVENT indicates that the largest wait event (in terms of wait
time) is the event buffer busy waits, then look at the specific buffer wait statistics
available in the view V$WAITSTAT to see which block type has the highest wait count
and the highest wait time.
After the block type has been identified, also look at V$SESSION real-time while the
problem is occurring or V$ACTIVE_SESSION_HISTORY and
DBA_HIST_ACTIVE_SESS_HISTORY views after the problem has been experienced to
identify the contended-for objects using the object number indicated. The combination
of this data indicates the appropriate corrective action.
Statistics are available in many V$ views. The following are some of the V$ views that
contain system statistics.
V$ACTIVE_SESSION_HISTORY
This view displays active database session activity, sampled once every second.
V$SYSSTAT
This contains overall statistics for many different parts of Oracle Database, including
rollback, logical and physical I/O, and parse data. Data from V$SYSSTAT is used to
compute ratios, such as the buffer cache hit ratio.
V$FILESTAT
This contains detailed file I/O statistics for each file, including the number of I/Os for
each file and the average read time.
Chapter 10
Instance Tuning Steps
10-10
V$ROLLSTAT
This contains detailed rollback and undo segment statistics for each segment.
V$ENQUEUE_STAT
This contains detailed enqueue statistics for each enqueue, including the number of times an
enqueue was requested and the number of times an enqueue was waited for, and the wait
time.
V$LATCH
This contains detailed latch usage statistics for each latch, including the number of times
each latch was requested and the number of times the latch was waited for.
See Also:
Oracle Database Reference for information about dynamic performance views
Segment-Level Statistics
You can gather segment-level statistics to help you spot performance problems associated
with individual segments. Collecting and viewing segment-level statistics is a good way to
effectively identify hot tables or indexes in an instance.
After viewing wait events and system statistics to identify the performance problem, you can
use segment-level statistics to find specific tables or indexes that are causing the problem.
Consider, for example, that V$SYSTEM_EVENT indicates that buffer busy waits cause a fair
amount of wait time. You can select from V$SEGMENT_STATISTICS the top segments that
cause the buffer busy waits. Then you can focus your effort on eliminating the problem in
those segments.
You can query segment-level statistics through the following dynamic performance views:
ò
V$SEGSTAT_NAME: This view lists the segment statistics being collected and the
properties of each statistic (for instance, if it is a sampled statistic).
ò
V$SEGSTAT: This is a highly efficient, real-time monitoring view that shows the statistic
value, statistic name, and other basic information.
ò
V$SEGMENT_STATISTICS: This is a user-friendly view of statistic values. In addition to all
the columns of V$SEGSTAT, it has information about such things as the segment owner
and table space name. It makes the statistics easy to understand, but it is more costly.
See Also:
Oracle Database Reference for information about dynamic performance views
Chapter 10
Instance Tuning Steps
10-11
Implement and Measure Change
Often at the end of a tuning exercise, it is possible to identify two or three changes that
could potentially alleviate the problem. To identify which change provides the most
benefit, it is recommended that only one change be implemented at a time. The effect
of the change should be measured against the baseline data measurements found in
the problem definition phase.
Typically, most sites with dire performance problems implement several overlapping
changes at once, and thus cannot identify which changes provided any benefit.
Although this is not immediately an issue, this becomes a significant hindrance if
similar problems subsequently appear, because it is not possible to know which of the
changes provided the most benefit and which efforts to prioritize.
If it is not possible to implement changes separately, then try to measure the effects of
dissimilar changes. For example, measure the effect of making an initialization change
to optimize redo generation separately from the effect of creating a new index to
improve the performance of a modified query. It is impossible to measure the benefit of
performing an operating system upgrade if SQL is tuned, the operating system disk
layout is changed, and the initialization parameters are also changed at the same time.
Performance tuning is an iterative process. It is unlikely to find a 'silver bullet' that
solves an instance-wide performance problem. In most cases, excellent performance
requires iteration through the performance tuning phases, because solving one
bottleneck often uncovers another (sometimes worse) problem.
Knowing when to stop tuning is also important. The best measure of performance is
user perception, rather than how close the statistic is to an ideal value.
Interpreting Oracle Database Statistics
Gather statistics that cover the time when the instance had the performance problem.
If you previously captured baseline data for comparison, then you can compare the
current data to the data from the baseline that most represents the problem workload.
When comparing two reports, ensure that the two reports are from times where the
system was running comparable workloads.
Examine Load
Usually, wait events are the first data examined. However, if you have a baseline
report, then check to see if the load has changed. Regardless of whether you have a
baseline, it is useful to see whether the resource usage rates are high.
Load-related statistics to examine include redo size, session logical reads, db block
changes, physical reads, physical read total bytes, physical writes, physical
write total bytes, parse count (total), parse count (hard), and user calls. This
data is queried from V$SYSSTAT. It is best to normalize this data over seconds and over
transactions. It is also useful to examine the total I/O load in MB per second by using
the sum of physical read total bytes and physical write total bytes. The combined value
includes the I/O's used to buffer cache, redo logs, archive logs, by Recovery Manager
(RMAN) backup and recovery and any Oracle Database background process.
Chapter 10
Interpreting Oracle Database Statistics
10-12
In the AWR report, look at the Load Profile section. The data has been normalized over
transactions and over seconds.
Changing Load
The load profile statistics over seconds show the changes in throughput (that is, whether the
instance is performing more work each second). The statistics over transactions identify
changes in the application characteristics by comparing these to the corresponding statistics
from the baseline report.
High Rates of Activity
Examine the statistics normalized over seconds to identify whether the rates of activity are
very high. It is difficult to make blanket recommendations on high values, because the
thresholds are different on each site and are contingent on the application characteristics, the
number and speed of CPUs, the operating system, the I/O system, and the Oracle Database
release.
The following are some generalized examples (acceptable values vary at each site):
ò
A hard parse rate of more than 100 a second indicates that there is a very high amount of
hard parsing on the system. High hard parse rates cause serious performance issues
and must be investigated. Usually, a high hard parse rate is accompanied by latch
contention on the shared pool and library cache latches.
ò
Check whether the sum of the wait times for library cache and shared pool latch events
(latch: library cache, latch: library cache pin, latch: library cache lock and latch: shared
pool) is significant compared to statistic DB time found in V$SYSSTAT. If so, examine the
SQL ordered by Parse Calls section of the AWR report.
ò
A high soft parse rate could be in the rate of 300 a second or more. Unnecessary soft
parses also limit application scalability. Optimally, a SQL statement should be soft parsed
once in each session and executed many times.
Using Wait Event Statistics to Drill Down to Bottlenecks
Whenever an Oracle process waits for something, it records the wait using one of a set of
predefined wait events. These wait events are grouped in wait classes. The Idle wait class
groups all events that a process waits for when it does not have work to do and is waiting for
more work to perform. Non-idle events indicate nonproductive time spent waiting for a
resource or action to complete.
Note:
Not all symptoms can be evidenced by wait events. See "Additional Statistics" for
the statistics that can be checked.
The most effective way to use wait event data is to order the events by the wait time. This is
only possible if TIMED_STATISTICS is set to true. Otherwise, the wait events can only be
ranked by the number of times waited, which is often not the ordering that best represents the
problem.
To get an indication of where time is spent, follow these steps:
Chapter 10
Interpreting Oracle Database Statistics
10-13
1.
Examine the data collection for V$SYSTEM_EVENT. The events of interest should be
ranked by wait time.
Identify the wait events that have the most significant percentage of wait time. To
determine the percentage of wait time, add the total wait time for all wait events,
excluding idle events, such as Null event , SQL*Net message from client,
SQL*Net message to client, and SQL*Net more data to client. Calculate the
relative percentage of the five most prominent events by dividing each event's wait
time by the total time waited for all events.
Alternatively, look at the Top 5 Timed Events section at the beginning of the
Automatic Workload Repository report. This section automatically orders the wait
events (omitting idle events), and calculates the relative percentage:
Top 5 Timed Events
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ % Total
Event Waits Time (s) Call Time
-------------------------------------- ------------ ----------- ---------
CPU time 559 88.80
log file parallel write 2,181 28 4.42
SQL*Net more data from client 516,611 27 4.24
db file parallel write 13,383 13 2.04
db file sequential read 563 2 .27
In some situations, there might be a few events with similar percentages. This can
provide extra evidence if all the events are related to the same type of resource
request (for example, all I/O related events).
2.
Look at the number of waits for these events, and the average wait time. For
example, for I/O related events, the average time might help identify whether the
I/O system is slow. The following example of this data is taken from the Wait Event
section of the AWR report:
 Avg
 Total Wait wait Waits
Event Waits Timeouts Time (s) (ms) /txn
--------------------------- --------- --------- ---------- ------ ---------
log file parallel write 2,181 0 28 13 41.2
SQL*Net more data from clie 516,611 0 27 0 9,747.4
db file parallel write 13,383 0 13 1 252.5
3.
The top wait events identify the next places to investigate. A table of common wait
events is listed in Table 10-1. It is usually a good idea to also have quick look at
high-load SQL.
4.
Examine the related data indicated by the wait events to see what other
information this data provides. Determine whether this information is consistent
with the wait event data. In most situations, there is enough data to begin
developing a theory about the potential causes of the performance bottleneck.
5.
To determine whether this theory is valid, cross-check data you have examined
with other statistics available for consistency. The appropriate statistics vary
depending on the problem, but usually include load profile-related data in
V$SYSSTAT, operating system statistics, and so on. Perform cross-checks with
other data to confirm or refute the developing theory.
Chapter 10
Interpreting Oracle Database Statistics
10-14
See Also:
ò
"Idle Wait Events" for the list of idle wait events
ò
Oracle Database Reference for more information about wait events
Table of Wait Events and Potential Causes
Table 10-1 links wait events to possible causes and gives an overview of the Oracle data that
could be most useful to review next.
Table 10-1 Wait Events and Potential Causes
Wait Event
General Area
Possible Causes
Look for / Examine
buffer busy
waits
Buffer cache, DBWR
Depends on buffer
type. For example,
waits for an index
block may be caused
by a primary key that
is based on an
ascending sequence.
Examine V$SESSION while the problem is
occurring to determine the type of block in
contention.
free buffer
waits
Buffer cache, DBWR,
I/O
Slow DBWR (possibly
due to I/O?)
Cache too small
Examine write time using operating system
statistics. Check buffer cache statistics for
evidence of too small cache.
db file
scattered read
I/O, SQL statement
tuning
Poorly tuned SQL
Slow I/O system
Investigate V$SQLAREA to see whether there
are SQL statements performing many disk
reads. Cross-check I/O system and
V$FILESTAT for poor read time.
db file
sequential read
I/O, SQL statement
tuning
Poorly tuned SQL
Slow I/O system
Investigate V$SQLAREA to see whether there
are SQL statements performing many disk
reads. Cross-check I/O system and
V$FILESTAT for poor read time.
enqueue waits (waits
starting with enq:)
Locks
Depends on type of
enqueue
Look at V$ENQUEUE_STAT.
library cache latch
waits: library
cache, library
cache pin, and
library cache
lock
Latch contention
SQL parsing or
sharing
Check V$SQLAREA to see whether there are
SQL statements with a relatively high
number of parse calls or a high number of
child cursors (column VERSION_COUNT).
Check parse statistics in V$SYSSTAT and
their corresponding rate for each second.
log buffer space
Log buffer, I/O
Log buffer small
Slow I/O system
Check the statistic redo buffer
allocation retries in V$SYSSTAT. Check
configuring log buffer section in configuring
memory chapter. Check the disks that house
the online redo logs for resource contention.
log file sync
I/O, over- committing
Slow disks that store
the online logs
Un-batched commits
Check the disks that house the online redo
logs for resource contention. Check the
number of transactions (commits +
rollbacks) each second, from V$SYSSTAT.
Chapter 10
Interpreting Oracle Database Statistics
10-15
See Also:
ò
"Wait Events Statistics" for detailed information on each event listed in
"Table 10-1" and for other information to cross-check
ò
Oracle Database Reference for information about dynamic performance
views
ò
My Oracle Support notices on buffer busy waits (34405.1) and free
buffer waits (62172.1). You can also access these notices and related
notices by searching for "busy buffer waits" and "free buffer waits" on My
Oracle Support website.
Additional Statistics
There are several statistics that can indicate performance problems that do not have
corresponding wait events.
Redo Log Space Requests Statistic
The V$SYSSTAT statistic redo log space requests indicates how many times a server
process had to wait for space in the online redo log, not for space in the redo log
buffer. Use this statistic and the wait events as an indication that you must tune
checkpoints, DBWR, or archiver activity, not LGWR. Increasing the size of the log
buffer does not help.
Read Consistency
Your system might spend excessive time rolling back changes to blocks in order to
maintain a consistent view. Consider the following scenarios:
ò
If there are many small transactions and an active long-running query is running in
the background on the same table where the changes are happening, then the
query might need to roll back those changes often, in order to obtain a read-
consistent image of the table. Compare the following V$SYSSTAT statistics to
determine whether this is happening:
û
consistent: changes statistic indicates the number of times a database block
has rollback entries applied to perform a consistent read on the block.
Workloads that produce a great deal of consistent changes can consume a
great deal of resources.
û
consistent gets: statistic counts the number of logical reads in consistent
mode.
ò
If there are few very, large rollback segments, then your system could be spending
a lot of time rolling back the transaction table during delayed block cleanout in
order to find out exactly which system change number (SCN) a transaction was
committed. When Oracle Database commits a transaction, all modified blocks are
not necessarily updated with the commit SCN immediately. In this case, it is done
later on demand when the block is read or updated. This is called delayed block
cleanout.
The ratio of the following V$SYSSTAT statistics should be close to one:
Chapter 10
Interpreting Oracle Database Statistics
10-16
ratio = transaction tables consistent reads - undo records applied /
 transaction tables consistent read rollbacks
The recommended solution is to use automatic undo management.
ò
If there are insufficient rollback segments, then there is rollback segment (header or
block) contention. Evidence of this problem is available by the following:
û
Comparing the number of WAITS to the number of GETS in V$ROLLSTAT; the proportion
of WAITS to GETS should be small.
û
Examining V$WAITSTAT to see whether there are many WAITS for buffers of CLASS
'undo header'.
The recommended solution is to use automatic undo management.
Table Fetch by Continued Row
You can detect migrated or chained rows by checking the number of table fetch continued
row statistic in V$SYSSTAT. A small number of chained rows (less than 1%) is unlikely to
impact system performance. However, a large percentage of chained rows can affect
performance.
Chaining on rows larger than the block size is inevitable. Consider using a tablespace with a
larger block size for such data.
However, for smaller rows, you can avoid chaining by using sensible space parameters and
good application design. For example, do not insert a row with key values filled in and nulls in
most other columns, then update that row with the real data, causing the row to grow in size.
Rather, insert rows filled with data from the start.
If an UPDATE statement increases the amount of data in a row so that the row no longer fits in
its data block, then Oracle Database tries to find another block with enough free space to
hold the entire row. If such a block is available, then Oracle Database moves the entire row to
the new block. This operation is called row migration. If the row is too large to fit into any
available block, then the database splits the row into multiple pieces and stores each piece in
a separate block. This operation is called row chaining. The database can also chain rows
when they are inserted.
Migration and chaining are especially detrimental to performance with the following:
ò
UPDATE statements that cause migration and chaining to perform poorly
ò
Queries that select migrated or chained rows because these must perform additional
input and output
The definition of a sample output table named CHAINED_ROWS appears in a SQL script
available on your distribution medium. The common name of this script is UTLCHN1.SQL,
although its exact name and location varies depending on your platform. Your output table
must have the same column names, data types, and sizes as the CHAINED_ROWS table.
Increasing PCTFREE can help to avoid migrated rows. If you leave more free space available in
the block, then the row has room to grow. You can also reorganize or re-create tables and
indexes that have high deletion rates. If tables frequently have rows deleted, then data blocks
can have partially free space in them. If rows are inserted and later expanded, then the
inserted rows might land in blocks with deleted rows but still not have enough room to
expand. Reorganizing the table ensures that the main free space is totally empty blocks.
Chapter 10
Interpreting Oracle Database Statistics
10-17
Note:
PCTUSED is not the opposite of PCTFREE.
See Also:
ò
Oracle Database Concepts for more information on PCTUSED
ò
Oracle Database Administrator's Guide to learn how to reorganize tables
Parse-Related Statistics
The more your application parses, the more potential for contention exists, and the
more time your system spends waiting. If parse time CPU represents a large
percentage of the CPU time, then time is being spent parsing instead of executing
statements. If this is the case, then it is likely that the application is using literal SQL
and so SQL cannot be shared, or the shared pool is poorly configured.
There are several statistics available to identify the extent of time spent parsing by
Oracle. Query the parse related statistics from V$SYSSTAT. For example:
SELECT NAME, VALUE
 FROM V$SYSSTAT
 WHERE NAME IN ( 'parse time cpu', 'parse time elapsed',
 'parse count (hard)', 'CPU used by this session' );
There are various ratios that can be computed to assist in determining whether parsing
may be a problem:
ò
parse time CPU / parse time elapsed
This ratio indicates how much of the time spent parsing was due to the parse
operation itself, rather than waiting for resources, such as latches. A ratio of one is
good, indicating that the elapsed time was not spent waiting for highly contended
resources.
ò
parse time CPU / CPU used by this session
This ratio indicates how much of the total CPU used by Oracle server processes
was spent on parse-related operations. A ratio closer to zero is good, indicating
that the majority of CPU is not spent on parsing.
Wait Events Statistics
The V$SESSION, V$SESSION_WAIT, V$SESSION_HISTORY, V$SESSION_EVENT, and
V$SYSTEM_EVENT views provide information on what resources were waited for, and, if
the configuration parameter TIMED_STATISTICS is set to true, how long each resource
was waited for.
Chapter 10
Wait Events Statistics
10-18
See Also:
ò
"Setting the Level of Statistics Collection" for information about the
STATISTICS_LEVEL settings
ò
Oracle Database Reference for information about the V$ views containing wait
event statistics
Investigate wait events and related timing data when performing reactive performance tuning.
The events with the most time listed against them are often strong indications of the
performance bottleneck.
The following views contain related, but different, views of the same data:
ò
V$SESSION lists session information for each current session. It lists either the event
currently being waited for, or the event last waited for on each session. This view also
contains information about blocking sessions, the wait state, and the wait time.
ò
V$SESSION_WAIT is a current state view. It lists either the event currently being waited for,
or the event last waited for on each session, the wait state, and the wait time.
ò
V$SESSION_WAIT_HISTORY lists the last 10 wait events for each current session and the
associated wait time.
ò
V$SESSION_EVENT lists the cumulative history of events waited for on each session. After
a session exits, the wait event statistics for that session are removed from this view.
ò
V$SYSTEM_EVENT lists the events and times waited for by the whole instance (that is, all
session wait events data rolled up) since instance startup.
Because V$SESSION_WAIT is a current state view, it also contains a finer-granularity of
information than V$SESSION_EVENT or V$SYSTEM_EVENT. It includes additional identifying data
for the current event in three parameter columns: P1, P2, and P3.
For example, V$SESSION_EVENT can show that session 124 (SID=124) had many waits on the
db file scattered read, but it does not show which file and block number. However,
V$SESSION_WAIT shows the file number in P1, the block number read in P2, and the number of
blocks read in P3 (P1 and P2 let you determine for which segments the wait event is
occurring).
This section concentrates on examples using V$SESSION_WAIT. However, Oracle
recommends capturing performance data over an interval and keeping this data for
performance and capacity analysis. This form of rollup data is queried from the
V$SYSTEM_EVENT view by AWR.
Most commonly encountered events are described in this chapter, listed in case-sensitive
alphabetical order. Other event-related data to examine is also included. The case used for
each event name is that which appears in the V$SYSTEM_EVENT view.
Changes to Wait Event Statistics from Past Releases
Starting with Oracle Database 11g, Oracle Database accumulates wait counts and time outs
for wait events (such as in the V$SYSTEM_EVENT view) differently than in past releases.
Continuous waits for certain types of resources (such as enqueues) are internally divided into
a set of shorter wait calls. In releases prior to Oracle Database 11g, each individual internal
Chapter 10
Wait Events Statistics
10-19
wait call was counted as a separate wait. Starting with Oracle Database 11g, a single
resource wait is recorded as a single wait, irrespective of the number of internal time
outs experienced by the session during the wait.
This change allows Oracle Database to display a more representative wait count, and
an accurate total time spent waiting for the resource. Time outs now refer to the
resource wait, instead of the individual internal wait calls. This change also affects the
average wait time and the maximum wait time. For example, if a user session must
wait for an enqueue in order for a transaction row lock to update a single row in a
table, and it takes 10 seconds to acquire the enqueue, Oracle Database breaks down
the enqueue wait into 3-second wait calls. In this example, there will be three 3-second
wait calls, followed by a 1-second wait call. From the session's perspective, however,
there is only one wait on an enqueue.
In releases prior to Oracle Database 11g, the V$SYSTEM_EVENT view would represent
this wait scenario as follows:
ò
TOTAL_WAITS: 4 waits (three 3-second waits, one 1-second wait)
ò
TOTAL_TIMEOUTS: 3 time outs (the first three waits time out and the enqueue is
acquired during the final wait)
ò
TIME_WAITED: 10 seconds (sum of the times from the 4 waits)
ò
AVERAGE_WAIT: 2.5 seconds
ò
MAX_WAIT: 3 seconds
Starting with Oracle Database 11g, this wait scenario is represented as:
ò
TOTAL_WAITS: 1 wait (one 10-second wait)
ò
TOTAL_TIMEOUTS: 0 time outs (the enqueue is acquired during the resource wait)
ò
TIME_WAITED: 10 seconds (time for the resource wait)
ò
AVERAGE_WAIT: 10 seconds
ò
MAX_WAIT: 10 seconds
The following common wait events are affected by this change:
ò
Enqueue waits (such as enq: name - reason waits)
ò
Library cache lock waits
ò
Library cache pin waits
ò
Row cache lock waits
The following statistics are affected by this change:
ò
Wait counts
ò
Wait time outs
ò
Average wait time
ò
Maximum wait time
The following views are affected by this change:
ò
V$EVENT_HISTOGRAM
ò
V$EVENTMETRIC
Chapter 10
Wait Events Statistics
10-20
ò
V$SERVICE_EVENT
ò
V$SERVICE_WAIT_CLASS
ò
V$SESSION_EVENT
ò
V$SESSION_WAIT
ò
V$SESSION_WAIT_CLASS
ò
V$SESSION_WAIT_HISTORY
ò
V$SYSTEM_EVENT
ò
V$SYSTEM_WAIT_CLASS
ò
V$WAITCLASSMETRIC
ò
V$WAITCLASSMETRIC_HISTORY
See Also:
Oracle Database Reference for a description of the V$SYSTEM_EVENT view
buffer busy waits
This wait indicates that there are some buffers in the buffer cache that multiple processes are
attempting to access concurrently. Query V$WAITSTAT for the wait statistics for each class of
buffer. Common buffer classes that have buffer busy waits include data block, segment
header, undo header, and undo block.
Check the following V$SESSION_WAIT parameter columns:
ò
P1: File ID
ò
P2: Block ID
ò
P3: Class ID
Causes
To determine the possible causes, first query V$SESSION to identify the value of
ROW_WAIT_OBJ# when the session waits for buffer busy waits. For example:
SELECT row_wait_obj# 
 FROM V$SESSION 
 WHERE EVENT = 'buffer busy waits';
To identify the object and object type contended for, query DBA_OBJECTS using the value for
ROW_WAIT_OBJ# that is returned from V$SESSION. For example:
SELECT owner, object_name, subobject_name, object_type
 FROM DBA_OBJECTS
 WHERE data_object_id = &row_wait_obj;
Actions
The action required depends on the class of block contended for and the actual segment.
Chapter 10
Wait Events Statistics
10-21
Segment Header
If the contention is on t
